---
title: My essential work-from-home setup
date: 2022-11-28
permalink: "blog/{{ title | slugify }}/index.html"
layout: layouts/post.njk
eleventyExcludeFromCollections: true
---

I work full-time from home since the beginning of the covid pandemic, but before that, I worked from home every afternoon for three years. I like to think I’ve amassed some knowledge that can help you if you’re getting serious with your work-from-home setup.

<!-- more -->

Please note that these are the essentials. I don’t list here everything I use, but only what I consider the basics for productivity.

My whole day-to-day work setup revolves around these pieces of hardware and software:

## Hardware

**Computer**

My employer provided a 16” i9 MacBook Pro with 32GB RAM. I use it in clamshell mode. My personal computer is a MacBook Air M1 with 16GB RAM.

**Monitor**

I use a 34” Ultrawide Huawei monitor running at 3440 x 1440 / 120Hz

**Keyboard and Mouse**

I’m constantly switching between my mechanical keyboards, but that’s a matter of preference. The best keyboard is the one you feel more confortable with.

I use a Logi MX vertical mouse by suggestion of my doctor. I switched from a magic trackpad when I started to suffer strain-related pain in my wrist.

**Macro pad**

I have this cheapo macro pad from Aliexpress. It’s very good though, the only downside is that you need windows to configure it (just the first time).

All of the things that the macro pad does, it does them thanks to Better Touch Tool.

These are the functions I have configured in the 12 keys:

| esc | open Brave | open Safari | open Slack |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| arrange windows | open Notion | open Podcasts | open Music |
| take screenshot to clipboard | take screenshot to file | move to left space | move to right space |

**Webcam and Microphone**

I use a Logi c920 (a.k.a. the pandemic webcam) that does the job but has a terrible microphone, so I paired it with a cheap Boya compact shotgun mic

**Dock**

Everything is connected with a Caldigit TS3 Thunderbolt dock that allows me to switch between my work and personal computers with a single cable.

There are more affordable solutions, just make sure they offer power delivery and have enough ports for yout stuff, specially if you use two or more computers. That way you can move a single cable from one computer to another to switch the whole setup.

**Audio**

I have the privilege of having my own office, so I use a pair of Edifier studio monitors to have video calls without a headset. If you’re not isolated though, any pair of headphones will do.

## Software

The main advantage of having an ultra-wide monitor is the obvious one: lots of screen real estate. To manage that in the best way possible, I use 3 mac apps:

**Rectangle**

This app, a fork from an old one named Spectacle, allows you to move windows to certain locations and sizes with keyboard shorcuts. There are configurable options for lots of sizes and locations, and after many years of usage, it’s already part of my muscular memory.

Here’s my configuration file, in case you’re interested.

**Display Maid**

This one I use in tandem with Rectangle. While Rectangle allows you to organize your windows across your screen or spaces, Display Maid lets you save and restore different states or layouts of your screen and quickly switch between them.

[image] The “Office” layout

[image] The “Code” layout

I can switch between these layouts with a hotkey, configurable in Display Maid.

**Better Touch Tool**

Better Touch Tool is the star of the show. It allows me to use whatever I want on the macro pad keys, configure extra shortcuts on my keyboard, like hide/show desktop icons, etc. 

My mouse has extra buttons, so thanks to Better Touch Tool I can also move between spaces with the mouse, control the volume and show mission control or the desktop.

The configuration syncs between macs, so I have everything in both of them.

I use two “spaces” or virtual desktops for work, organized in the following way:

Space 1: the work space.

- Browser. I use brave for work, with these pinned tabs:
    - Monday
    - The web apps I work on
- Code editor (Visual Studio Code)
- Slack
- Apple Mail, with my work account only. No personal accounts here.
- Apple calendar, connected to my work Google Calendar account.

Space 2: the companion space

- Notion, which I use for everything I may need to remember long-term. I use pen and paper for ephemeral notes and archive to Notion everything important at the end of the day.
- Apple Music
- Apple Podcasts